There are two kinds of 'definition' we need to consider in category theory.
1) An object of type X is a Y if ....
2) An object X is a structure comprised of so and so...

To 1) correspond propositions and to 2) records.

Thus it makes no sense to a say a Functor or a Natural Transformation is a X such that....
But we can say that an object T is a category C is a terminal object if such and such....



================= Passage of the SOPHIST ================================


Str. You follow close at heels, Theaetetus. For the right method,
I conceive, will be to call into our presence the dualistic philosophers
and to interrogate them. "Come," we will say, "Ye, who affirm that
hot and cold or any other two principles are the universe, what is
this term which you apply to both of them, and what do you mean when
you say that both and each of them 'are'? How are we to understand
the word 'are'? Upon your view, are we to suppose that there is a
third principle over and above the other two-three in all, and not
two? For clearly you cannot say that one of the two principles is
being, and yet attribute being equally to both of them; for, if you
did, whichever of the two is identified with being, will comprehend
the other; and so they will be one and not two." 

Theaet. Very true. 

Str. But perhaps you mean to give the name of "being" to both of them
together? 

Theaet. Quite likely. 
Str. "Then, friends," we shall reply to them, "the answer is plainly
that the two will still be resolved into one." 

Theaet. Most true. 
Str. "Since then, we are in a difficulty, please to tell us what you
mean, when you speak of being; for there can be no doubt that you
always from the first understood your own meaning, whereas we once
thought that we understood you, but now we are in a great strait.
Please to begin by explaining this matter to us, and let us no longer
fancy that we understand you, when we entirely misunderstand you."
There will be no impropriety in our demanding an answer to this question,
either of the dualists or of the pluralists? 

Theaet. Certainly not. 

Str. And what about the assertors of the oneness of the all-must we
not endeavour to ascertain from them what they mean by "being"?

Theaet. By all means. 

Str. Then let them answer this question: One, you say, alone is? "Yes,"
they will reply. 

Theaet. True. 

Str. And there is something which you call "being"? 
Theaet. "Yes." 

Str. And is being the same as one, and do you apply two names to the
same thing? 

Theaet. What will be their answer, Stranger? 

Str. It is clear, Theaetetus, that he who asserts the unity of being
will find a difficulty in answering this or any other question.

Theaet. Why so? 

Str. To admit of two names, and to affirm that there is nothing but
unity, is surely ridiculous? 

Theaet. Certainly. 

Str. And equally irrational to admit that a name is anything?

Theaet. How so? 

Str. To distinguish the name from the thing, implies duality.

Theaet. Yes. 

Str. And yet he who identifies the name with the thing will be compelled
to say that it is the name of nothing, or if he says that it is the
name of something, even then the name will only be the name of a name,
and of nothing else. 

Theaet. True. 

Str. And the one will turn out to be only one of one, and being absolute
unity, will represent a mere name. 

Theaet. Certainly. 

Str. And would they say that the whole is other than the one that
is, or the same with it? 

Theaet. To be sure they would, and they actually say so.

Str. If being is a whole, as Parmenides sings,- 

Every way like unto the fullness of a well-rounded sphere,

Evenly balanced from the centre on every side, 
And must needs be neither greater nor less in any way, 
Neither on this side nor on that- then being has a centre and extremes,
and, having these, must also have parts. 

Theaet. True. 

Str. Yet that which has parts may have the attribute of unity in all
the parts, and in this way being all and a whole, may be one?

Theaet. Certainly. 

Str. But that of which this is the condition cannot be absolute unity?

Theaet. Why not? 

Str. Because, according to right reason, that which is truly one must
be affirmed to be absolutely indivisible. 

Theaet. Certainly. 

Str. But this indivisible, if made up of many parts, will contradict
reason. 

Theaet. I understand. 

Str. Shall we say that being is one and a whole, because it has the
attribute of unity? Or shall we say that being is not a whole at all?

Theaet. That is a hard alternative to offer. 

Str. Most true; for being, having in a certain sense the attribute
of one, is yet proved not to be the same as one, and the all is therefore
more than one. 

Theaet. Yes. 

Str. And yet if being be not a whole, through having the attribute
of unity, and there be such a thing as an absolute whole, being lacks
something of its own nature? 

Theaet. Certainly. 

Str. Upon this view, again, being, having a defect of being, will
become not-being? 

Theaet. True. 

Str. And, again, the all becomes more than one, for being and the
whole will each have their separate nature. 

Theaet. Yes. 

Str. But if the whole does not exist at all, all the previous difficulties
remain the same, and there will be the further difficulty, that besides
having no being, being can never have come into being. 

Theaet. Why so? 

Str. Because that which comes into being always comes into being as
a whole, so that he who does not give whole a place among beings,
cannot speak either of essence or generation as existing.

Theaet. Yes, that certainly appears to be true. 

Str. Again; how can that which is not a whole have any quantity? For
that which is of a certain quantity must necessarily be the whole
of that quantity. 

Theaet. Exactly. 

Str. And there will be innumerable other points, each of them causing
infinite trouble to him who says that being is either, one or two.

Theaet. The difficulties which are dawning upon us prove this; for
one objection connects with another, and they are always involving
what has preceded in a greater and worse perplexity. 



















